feat: update localization doc (#1784)
AmadeusITGroup/otter: docs/localization/LOCALIZATION.md

# How to use

We provide an Angular module in __@o3r/localization__ called [LocalizationModule](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/blob/main/packages/@o3r/localization/src/tools/localization.module.ts) which comes with a translations loader.

## Configuration of Localization Module

In your `AppModule`, you need to **import** the `LocalizationModule` and `TranslateModule` (from __@ngx-translate/core__). The `LocalizationModule` could be imported calling its `forRoot` method
with a custom configuration **factory** to specify the language of the application. This configuration is of type `LocalizationConfiguration` and describes:
- The endpoint URL - where to fetch the translation bundles from
- Supported locales - list of available languages
- RTL languages - list of RTL language codes
- The language of the application - display language
- The fallback language - fallback in case the translation in the selected language does not exist

All the possible configuration options can be found in the `LocalizationConfiguration` [interface](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/blob/main/packages/%40o3r/localization/src/core/localization.configuration.ts).

> You can also import the `LocalizationModule` without calling its `forRoot` method. In this case, you will be provided with some default `LocalizationConfiguration`.

Reviewer: I think `forRoot` should always be called in the `AppModule` but you are not forced to provide a configuration, if any then a default configuration will be applied

# Otter Localization

The localization module is built on top of an open source [ngx-translate](https://github.com/ngx-translate/core) library.

[Date](https://angular.io/api/common/DatePipe), [currency](https://angular.io/api/common/CurrencyPipe), [decimal](https://angular.io/api/common/DecimalPipe) number, [pluralization](https://angular.io/api/common/I18nPluralPipe) and [selection](https://angular.io/api/common/I18nSelectPipe) can be easily handled by built-in Angular pipes and by providing them a locale.

# Features

- Multiple [locales](https://github.com/angular/angular/tree/master/packages/common/locales) support, switchable at runtime

- RTL (right-to-left) text direction support

> - Translations loader using a specific endpoint (external URL source such as a CMS for example) or defaulting to local translation bundles in the **src/assets/assets-otter/i18n** folder of your application. The input folder for bundles can be changed by configuration (via a shell option).

Reviewer: not sure about this part `src/assets/assets-otter/i18n` ?

> - Translations loader using a specific endpoint (external URL source such as a CMS for example) or defaulting to local translation bundles in the **src/assets/assets-otter/i18n** folder of your application. The input folder for bundles can be changed by configuration (via a shell option).

Reviewer: which shell option ? (not sure to know what it is)

Author: I changed to CLI option to be more clear (`The assets folder for bundles can be changed by configuration (via a CLI option).`), but I could remove this line if you don't find it necessary.

- Fallback language. In case a resource key does not exist in language X, the loader tries to fetch the translation bundle from the endpoint location in fallback language Y first and ends by loading JSON bundles from the application (root of dist folder by default) if the previous steps have failed (the output path of the bundles in the dist folder is also configurable via a CLI option).

- Resource keys can be translated from templates (`*.html`) via a [pipe](https://github.com/ngx-translate/core/blob/master/packages/core/lib/translate.pipe.ts) or [directive](https://github.com/ngx-translate/core/blob/master/packages/core/lib/translate.directive.ts) as well as from typescript (`*.ts`) via a [service](https://github.com/ngx-translate/core/blob/master/packages/core/lib/translate.service.ts).

- Support for resource keys with parameters.

- Custom `LocalizationConfiguration` can be injected from the application.

> - Intelligent fallback support. For any unsupported language request, the localization service will fallback to the fallback locale map language OR the first closest supported language. More information in the [intelligent fallback section](#intelligent-fallback-support) below.

Reviewer 2: This seems redundant with the third point

> - Intelligent fallback support. For any unsupported language request, the localization service will fallback to the fallback locale map language OR the first closest supported language. More information in the [intelligent fallback section](#intelligent-fallback-support) below.

Reviewer 2: I think you can merge it with the third point or make them more distinct

- Ability to toggle translations on and off to help identify the key corresponding to a translation.

# How to use

We provide an Angular module in __@o3r/localization__ called [LocalizationModule](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/blob/main/packages/@o3r/localization/src/tools/localization.module.ts) which comes with a translations loader.

## Configuration of Localization Module

In your `AppModule`, you need to **import** the `LocalizationModule` and `TranslateModule` (from __@ngx-translate/core__). The `LocalizationModule` could be imported calling its `forRoot` method
with a custom configuration **factory** to specify the language of the application. This configuration is of type `LocalizationConfiguration` and describes:
- The endpoint URL - where to fetch the translation bundles from
- Supported locales - list of available languages
- RTL languages - list of RTL language codes
- The language of the application - display language
- The fallback language - fallback in case the translation in the selected language does not exist

> All the possible configuration options can de found in the `LocalizationConfiguration` [interface](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/blob/main/packages/%40o3r/localization/src/core/localization.configuration.ts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the possible configuration options can be found in the `LocalizationConfiguration` [interface](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/blob/main/packages/%40o3r/localization/src/core/localization.configuration.ts).
```

> which largely simplifies this command.

### Generated files

#### Localization file (`*.localization.json`)

The JSON localization file defines an object of key/value pairs. Each value is a JSON object with the properties `description` and `defaultValue`.
Eventually, you can reference a global key via `$ref` using a relative path to a global localization JSON file or in a different package in the dependencies.
The purpose of this file is to provide a default localization for a component so that the developer can start building pages using components without worrying about localization.
The `*.localization.json` file specifies default values in English only.

```json5
{
  "o3r-my-component-pres.somekey1": {
    "description": "This is somekey1 description for translators",
    "defaultValue": "This is my default value 1"
  },
  "o3r-my-component-pres.somekey2": {
    "description": "This is somekey2 description for translators",
    "defaultValue": "This is my default value 2"
  },
  "o3r-my-component-pres.someglobalkey1": {

>     "$ref": "../global.localization.json#/someglobalkey1"

Reviewer: Maybe we are missing documentation to explain the purpose of using `$ref`

Author: There is a line above this code snippet to explain why we can use `$ref`, should we add additional documentation?

It also exports a constant (`translations`) that satisfies the above contract. The values for each property are localization keys (real keys from the localization bundle).

```typescript
import {Translation} from  '@o3r/core';

export  interface MyComponentPresTranslation extends Translation {
  prop1: string;
  prop2: string;
}

export  const translations: MyComponentPresTranslation = {
  prop1: 'o3r-my-component-pres.somekey1',
  prop2: 'o3r-my-component-pres.somekey2'
};
```

For the `SimpleHeaderPresComponent` example, the translation file could look something like this:

```typescript
import type { Translation } from '@o3r/core';

export interface SimpleHeaderPresTranslation extends Translation {
  /** Airline name */
  airline: string;
  /** Airline motto phrase */
  motto: string;
  /** Hello message to the user (passed as a parameter) */
  locWithArg: string;
}

export const translations: SimpleHeaderPresTranslation = {
  airline: 'o3r-simple-header-pres.airline',
  motto: 'o3r-simple-header-pres.motto',
  locWithArg: 'o3r-simple-header-pres.locWithArg'
};
```

### Component file

> Now to localize your component, you will start by injecting `LocalizationService` to the constructor.

Reviewer: Not needed

Your component also needs to implement the `Translatable` interface which forces you to declare the `translations` property. This property requires 2 decorators (`@Input()` and `@Localization(url)`, with `url` corresponding to the relative path of the localization file).
This will let you override localization keys from the template and give your component some default localization if you don't have your own to start with.

```typescript
import { Component, Input } from '@angular/core';
import { Localization, LocalizationService, Translatable } from '@o3r/localization';
import { SimpleHeaderPresTranslation, translations } from './simple-header-pres.translation';

@Component({
  selector: 'o3r-simple-header-pres',
  styleUrls: ['./simple-header-pres.style.scss'],
  templateUrl: './simple-header-pres.template.html'
})

export class SimpleHeaderPresComponent implements Translatable<SimpleHeaderPresTranslation>, ... {
  /**
   * Localization of the component
   */
  @Input()
  @Localization('./simple-header-pres.localization.json')
  public translations: SimpleHeaderPresTranslation;

>   constructor(public localizationService: LocalizationService) {

Reviewer: Not needed

Reviewer: But the component need to have the import to `LocalizationModule`
else it will not have the access to the o3rTranslate pipe (it should be done by the schematic)

```

> [!NOTE]
> The code to the `o3rTranslate` pipe can be found [here](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/blob/main/packages/%40o3r/localization/src/tools/localization-translate.pipe.ts).

### Localization bundle

#### How to generate a component bundle

```shell
ng run project-name:i18n
```

It will create an `i18n` folder in the component folder, with an `en-GB.json` file containing the mapping between the localization key and the associated default value.

Check the list of options available by running:
```shell
ng run project-name:i18n --help
```

#### How to generate an application bundle

```shell
ng run project-name:generate-translations
```
It will create the application bundle for each supported language.

Check the list of options available by running:

```shell
ng run project-name:generate-translations --help
```

## Additional features

### How to localize a date, decimal and currency

Use Angular's built-in [DatePipe](https://angular.io/api/common/DatePipe), [DecimalPipe](https://angular.io/api/common/DecimalPipe) and [CurrencyPipe](https://angular.io/api/common/CurrencyPipe) pass the current locale as the last parameter.

> The locale is read from `this.localizationService.getCurrentLanguage()`. To be able to use this, your component must inject the `LocalizationService` dependency as a parameter of the constructor.

Reviewer: Must avec the import `LocalizationModule`

```typescript
import { Component, Input } from '@angular/core';
import { Localization, LocalizationService, Translatable } from '@o3r/localization';
import { SimpleHeaderPresTranslation, translations } from './simple-header-pres.translation';

@Component({
  selector: 'o3r-simple-header-pres',

>   styleUrls: ['./simple-header-pres.style.scss'],

Reviewer: import to LocalizationModule missing

  templateUrl: './simple-header-pres.template.html'
})

> export class SimpleHeaderPresComponent implements Translatable<SimpleHeaderPresTranslation>, ... {

Reviewer: ```typescript
import { Component, inject, Input } from '@angular/core';
import { Localization, LocalizationModule, LocalizationService, Translatable } from '@o3r/localization';
import { SimpleHeaderPresTranslation, translations } from './simple-header-pres.translation';

@Component({
  selector: 'o3r-simple-header-pres',
  imports: [LocalizationModule],
  styleUrls: ['./simple-header-pres.style.scss'],
  templateUrl: './simple-header-pres.template.html'
})
export class SimpleHeaderPresComponent implements Translatable<SimpleHeaderPresTranslation>, ... {

  // ...

  private readonly localizationService = inject(LocalizationService);
  public readonly currentLanguage = toSignal(
    this.localizationService.getTranslateService().onLangChange.pipe(map(({ lang }) => lang)),
    { initialData: this.localizationService.getCurrentLanguage() }
  )

  /**
   * Called upon language change to set current language
   * @param  language
   */
  public useLanguage(language: string) {
    this.localizationService.useLanguage(language);
  }
}
```

  // ...
  public currentLanguage: string;

  constructor(public localizationService: LocalizationService) {
    this.currentLanguage = localizationService.getCurrentLanguage();
    // ...
  }

  /**
   * Called upon language change to set current language
   * @param  language
   */
  public useLanguage(language: string) {
    this.localizationService.useLanguage(language);
  }
}
```

Now we can start using pipes:

```html

> <p>{{today | date: 'fullDate' : '' : currentLanguage}}</p>

Reviewer: We are not forced to pass the currentLanguage
```html
<p>{{today | date: 'fullDate' }}</p>

<p>{{1.5487 | number}}</p>

<p>{{1.5487 | currency: 'EUR' : 'symbol'}}</p>
```
but if you want to and if you apply the fix I proposed above
```html
<p>{{today | date: 'fullDate' : '' : currentLanguage()}}</p>

<p>{{1.5487 | number: '' : currentLanguage()}}</p>

<p>{{1.5487 | currency: 'EUR' : 'symbol' : '' : currentLanguage()}}</p>
```

<p>{{1.5487 | currency: 'EUR' : 'symbol' : '' : currentLanguage}}</p>
```

### How to add custom translations in the container

A container can have its own translations (for error messages for example). In this case, the container becomes `Translatable` as follows:

```typescript
import { Translatable } from '@o3r/localization';
import { MyContTranslation } from '../my.translation.ts';

@Component({
  selector: 'o3r-my-cont',
  templateUrl: './my.template.html',
  changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush
})
export class MyContComponent implements Translatable<MyContTranslation>, Block {

  /**
   * Localization of the component
   */
  @Input()
  @Localization('./my.localization.json')
  public translations: MyContTranslation;
}
```

There is also a possibility for the container to override the presenter's translations and pass them as input to the presenter.

### Configure the Localization Service in your root component

```typescript
// app.component.ts

import { LocalizationService } from '@o3r/localization';

// Inject LocalizationService which will take care of configuring TranslateService using LocalizationConfiguration and call configure() method

> constructor(private localizationService: LocalizationService) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
constructor() {
  inject(LocalizationService).configure();
}
```

  this.localizationService.configure();
}
```

### How to add RTL support in my app

> The `TextDirectionService` has to be injected in `app.component.ts` as follows:

Reviewer: To be discussed with the team how we can move it outside the app.component to not pollute it

```typescript
// app.component.ts

import { TextDirectionService } from '@o3r/localization';

> constructor(private textDirectionService: TextDirectionService) {}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { inject } from '@angular/core';

private readonly textDirectionService = inject(TextDirectionService)
```

```typescript
import {Translation} from  '@o3r/core';

export  interface MyComponentPresTranslation extends Translation {
  prop1: string;
  prop2: string;
}

export  const translations: MyComponentPresTranslation = {
  prop1: 'o3r-my-component-pres.somekey1',
  prop2: 'o3r-my-component-pres.somekey2'
};
```

For the `SimpleHeaderPresComponent` example, the translation file could look something like this:

```typescript
import type { Translation } from '@o3r/core';

export interface SimpleHeaderPresTranslation extends Translation {
  /** Airline name */
  airline: string;
  /** Airline motto phrase */
  motto: string;
  /** Hello message to the user (passed as a parameter) */
  locWithArg: string;
}

export const translations: SimpleHeaderPresTranslation = {
  airline: 'o3r-simple-header-pres.airline',
  motto: 'o3r-simple-header-pres.motto',
  locWithArg: 'o3r-simple-header-pres.locWithArg'
};
```

### Component file

Now to localize your component, you will start by injecting `LocalizationService` to the constructor.

> Your component also needs to implement the `Translatable` interface which forces you to declare the `translations` property. This property requires 2 decorators (`@Input()` and `@Localization(url)`, with `url` corresponding to the path of the localization file).

Reviewer 3: to the _relative_ path, maybe

This will let you override localization keys from the template and give your component some default localization if you don't have your own to start with.

```typescript
import { Component, Input } from '@angular/core';
import { Localization, LocalizationService, Translatable } from '@o3r/localization';
import { SimpleHeaderPresTranslation, translations } from './simple-header-pres.translation';

@Component({
  selector: 'o3r-simple-header-pres',
  styleUrls: ['./simple-header-pres.style.scss'],
  templateUrl: './simple-header-pres.template.html'
})

export class SimpleHeaderPresComponent implements Translatable<SimpleHeaderPresTranslation>, ... {
  /**
   * Localization of the component
   */
  @Input()
  @Localization('./simple-header-pres.localization.json')
  public translations: SimpleHeaderPresTranslation;

  constructor(public localizationService: LocalizationService) {
    this.translations = translations;
  }
}
```

### Template file

We can now use the `translations` property (declared in the component file) in the template.

> - If you **only** need to translate **text** in your template file, simply use the `o3rTranslate` pipe with/without parameters as follows:

Reviewer 3: maybe a link to the code could be useful. Not sure it was not done above.

The locale is read from `this.localizationService.getCurrentLanguage()`. To be able to use this, your component must inject the `LocalizationService` dependency as a parameter of the constructor.

```typescript
import { Component, Input } from '@angular/core';
import { Localization, LocalizationService, Translatable } from '@o3r/localization';
import { SimpleHeaderPresTranslation, translations } from './simple-header-pres.translation';

@Component({
  selector: 'o3r-simple-header-pres',
  styleUrls: ['./simple-header-pres.style.scss'],
  templateUrl: './simple-header-pres.template.html'
})
export class SimpleHeaderPresComponent implements Translatable<SimpleHeaderPresTranslation>, ... {

  // ...

  constructor(public localizationService: LocalizationService) {
    // ...
  }

  /**
   * Called upon language change to set current language
   * @param  language
   */
  public useLanguage(language: string) {
    this.localizationService.useLanguage(language);
  }
}
```

Now we can start using pipes:

```html

> <p>{{today | date: 'fullDate' : '' : localizationService.getCurrentLanguage()}}</p>

Reviewer 3: not from this PR, but it is not a good idea to call methods in the template. You can create a public property 'currentLanguage' and initialize it in the constructor with 'localizationService.getCurrentLanguage()' and then use the property in template.

A container can have its own translations (for error messages for example). In this case, the container becomes `Translatable` as follows:

```typescript
import { Translatable } from '@o3r/localization';
import { MyContTranslation } from '../my.translation.ts';

@Component({
  selector: 'o3r-my-cont',
  templateUrl: './my.template.html',
  changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush
})
export class MyContComponent implements Translatable<MyContTranslation>, Block {

  /**
   * Localization of the component
   */
  @Input()
  @Localization('./my.localization.json')
  public translations: MyContTranslation;
}
```

There is also a possibility for the container to override the presenter's translations and pass them as input to the presenter, for example:

```typescript
import { MyPresTranslation } from '../presenter/my.translation.ts';

@Component({
  selector: 'o3r-my-cont',
  templateUrl: './my.template.html',
  changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush
})
export class MyContComponent implements MyContContext, Block {

  /**
   * Localization of the component
   */
  @Input()
  public translations: Partial<MyPresTranslation>;

  // ...

>   public getMyPresContext(overrideContext) {

Reviewer 3: if I am not mistaken this method is deprecated, the example seems to be from the time when all the components have container/presenter structure. IMO you can remove the code example and let only the explanation, it's quite enough.

If you have your own localization, you need to create your translation bundles in JSON format. Each file is named after a locale and holds the corresponding translations.
For example, if your application is meant to support French, English and Canadian French, you will have 3 separate files called `en.json`, `fr.json` and `fr-CA.json` (the file name should match the official [locale](https://github.com/angular/angular/tree/master/packages/common/locales) name).

Place your translation bundles either at your dedicated endpoint URL or in your application's `src/assets/assets-otter/i18n` folder. The format of the bundles is a simple key/value pair object,
where the key is the name of the resource and the value is its translation. 

```json5
// en.json
{
  "o3r-simple-header-pres.motto": "Let's shape the future of travel",
  "o3r-simple-header-pres.airline": "My Airline",
  "o3r-simple-header-pres.logoAltText": "Brand Logo Text",
  "o3r-simple-header-pres.language.en": "English",
  "o3r-simple-header-pres.language.fr": "Français",
  "o3r-simple-header-pres.language.ar": "اللغة العربية",
  "o3r-simple-header-pres.locWithArg": "Hello, {{user}}!"
}
```

### How to properly create keys?

> It's always a good idea to respect certain naming conventions. For components, we prefix each key by the component selector to ensure the uniqueness of cross-components keys. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's always a good idea to respect certain naming conventions. For components, we recommend to prefix each key by the component selector to ensure the uniqueness of cross-components keys. 
```
maybe we can create a linter for that :)

Author: 👍 I will create an issue for this once the PR is merged

Author: https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/issues/1915

A language can be specified asynchronously by using the `LocalizationService.useLanguage(...)` function.

- In case it is not enough to provide your configuration object as explained above, you can also provide a new factory for the localization configuration.
  You only need to provide a token `LOCALIZATION_CONFIGURATION_TOKEN` with your custom factory and dependencies.

```typescript
// app.module.ts

import localeAR from '@angular/common/locales/ar';
import localeEN from '@angular/common/locales/en';
import localeFR from '@angular/common/locales/fr';
import { TranslateModule } from '@ngx-translate/core';
import { LOCALIZATION_CONFIGURATION_TOKEN, LocalizationModule, translateLoaderProvider } from '@o3r/localization';
// ...

registerLocaleData(localeEN, 'en-EN');
registerLocaleData(localeFR, 'fr');
registerLocaleData(localeAR, 'ar');

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    LocalizationModule,
    TranslateModule.forRoot({
      loader: translateLoaderProvider,
    })
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
  providers: [
    {provide: LOCALIZATION_CONFIGURATION_TOKEN, useFactory: customCreateLocalizationConfiguration, deps: [YourServiceNeededByTheFactory]}
  ]
})
class AppModule {}
```

## HTTP server

> You may also need to set up your http server to accept **CORS** and update the `connect-src` property of `csp.json` in your application.

Reviewer: Do we really need to add that in our documentation ?
It's not related to Otter no ?

Author: It's not related to Otter but it could be useful during the setup of the localization. 
What does everyone think?

Reviewer 4: It's good to add it if it helps the setup
`You may also need` -> it is not clear in the doc when and why this would be needed

```json5
// configs/csp.json

{
  "connect-src": "http://example.com"
}
```

## Localizing the components

Now we are ready to localize the components of the application.

> ### How to generate localization files for a component

Reviewer 5: I think this session is missing information regarding 2 points:
- The `--use-localization` is mandatory only if the parameter is not provided in the workspace config file (angular.json, nx.json or project.json) under the schematics parameters property.
- The `ngAdd` of the localition package will set this parameter

(Not sure there is documentation regarding this parameter neither :S)

You can directly generate a localized component with the following command:
```shell
ng g component ComponentName --use-localization
```
Or you can localize it later with:
```shell
ng g localization-to-component --path='path/to/the/component/class/file'
```
> [!NOTE]
> Later you can add a localization key to a component with the following command:
> ```shell

> > ng g localization-key-to-component --path='path/to/the/component/class/file' --key='localizationKey' --value='defaultValue'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ng g localization-key-to-component --path='path/to/the/component/class/file' --key='localizationKey' --value='Default value for localizationKey'
```
So it's easier to understand that the key should not contain space but the value can

> > ng g localization-key-to-component --path='path/to/the/component/class/file' --key='localizationKey' --value='Default value for localizationKey'

Reviewer 5: Maybe you can add a Note to link to the VsCode session to indicate that the VsCode extension largely simplify this command (no path to specify anymore :))

> ```

### Generated files

#### Localization file (`*.localization.json`)

The JSON localization file defines an object of key/value pairs. Each value is a JSON object with the properties `description` and `defaultValue`.

> Eventually, you can reference a global key via `$ref` using a relative path to `global-localization.json`, which can be found in the `src` folder or in a different package in the dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eventually, you can reference a global key via `$ref` using a relative path to a global localization json file or in a different package in the dependencies.
```

> The purpose of this file is to provide a default localization for a component so that the user can start building pages using components without worrying about localization.

Reviewer 6: the user => the developer

```html
<p>{{today | date: 'fullDate' : '' : localizationService.getCurrentLanguage()}}</p>

<p>{{1.5487 | number: '' : localizationService.getCurrentLanguage()}}</p>

<p>{{1.5487 | currency: 'EUR' : 'symbol' : '' : localizationService.getCurrentLanguage()}}</p>
```

### How to add custom translations in the container

A container can have its own translations (for error messages for example). In this case, the container becomes `Translatable` as follows:

```typescript
import { Translatable } from '@o3r/localization';
import { MyContTranslation } from '../my.translation.ts';

@Component({
  selector: 'o3r-my-cont',
  templateUrl: './my.template.html',
  changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush
})
export class MyContComponent implements Translatable<MyContTranslation>, Block {

  /**
   * Localization of the component
   */
  @Input()
  @Localization('./my.localization.json')
  public translations: MyContTranslation;
}
```

There is also a possibility for the container to override the presenter's translations and pass them as input to the presenter, for example:

```typescript
import { MyPresTranslation } from '../presenter/my.translation.ts';

@Component({

>   selector: 'o3r-forms-poc-cont',

Reviewer: Why `forms` ?

> [!NOTE]
> The token `MESSAGE_FORMAT_CONFIG` implements the `LazyMessageFormatConfig` interface from `@o3r/localization`.

### How to localize plural expressions

For pluralization, we are using the `TranslateMessageFormatCompiler`, coming from the [ngx-translate-messageformat-compiler](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngx-translate-messageformat-compiler) package, which is a compiler for `ngx-translate` that uses `messageformat.js` to compile translations using ICU syntax for handling pluralization and gender.

> [ICU Message Format](http://userguide.icu-project.org/formatparse/messages) is a standardized syntax for dealing with the translation of user-visible strings into various languages that may have different requirements for the correct declension of words (e.g. according to number, gender, case) - or to simplify: pluralization.

Reviewer: the link is not accessible anymore
maybe could be replaced by https://messageformat.github.io/messageformat/guide/

```json5
{
  // the key has to be defined in the localization bundle
  "global.people": "{gender, select, male{He is} female{She is} other{They are}} {how}"
  // where 'gender' is the parameter used for choice and 'how' it's a parameter used only for display
}
```

```html
<!-- in component HTML -->
<ul>
  <li>{{ translations.people | o3rTranslate: { gender: 'female', how: 'influential' } }}</li>
  <li>{{ translations.people | o3rTranslate: { gender: 'male', how: 'funny' } }}</li>
  <li>{{ translations.people | o3rTranslate: { how: 'affectionate' } }}</li>
</ul>
```

Note again that `translations.people` matches the `global.people` key:

```
- She is influential
- He is funny
- They are affectionate
```

# Intelligent fallback support

The localization service supports a fallback strategy described in the details below.

## Scenario 1: Fallback based on `fallbackLocalesMap` and `supportedLocales`

In case `fallbackLocalesMap` is provided and the targeted translation language is unavailable in the list of supported locales,
the first priority goes to `fallbackLocalesMap` to see if the targeted translation language can be mapped with the configured fallback map.

> The second priority goes to `supportedLocales` to match the targeted translation language to the first closest possible language, the **locale** may can be different.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second priority goes to `supportedLocales` to match the targeted translation language to the first closest possible language where the **locale** can be different.
```

In case `fallbackLocalesMap` is not provided and the targeted translation language is unavailable in the list of supported locales,
the targeted translation language will be compared to the supported locales to find the first closest match, the **locale** may be different.
If none match, it will fall back to the **default language**.

**Let's assume:**

```typescript
return {
  // ...
  supportedLocales: ['en-GB', 'fr-FR', 'fr-CA', 'ar-AR'],
  fallbackLanguage: 'en-GB'
}
```

**Fallback scenarios:**

* `en-US` **fallbacks to** `en-GB`, as en-GB has the same language with a different region.
* `fr-BE` **fallbacks to** `fr-FR`, as fr-FR is first in the supported locales list.
* `it-IT` **fallbacks to** `en-GB`, as it is the default fallback.

# Debugging

## Runtime: toggle translation on and off

To make it easier to identify which key corresponds to a given text, the ``LocalizationService`` exposes a function ``toggleShowKeys()`` that can be called to deactivate or reactivate the translation mechanism at **runtime**.
While deactivated, the ``translate`` **pipe** and **directive** will output the translation keys instead of their resolved values.

> > [!IMPORTANT]

Reviewer: I would say `NOTE` or `WARNING` for this one 

and `IMPORTANT` for the paragraph just below as it has an impact on the performances

      language: 'fr',
      endPointUrl: 'http://example.com',
      bundlesOutputPath: config.LOCALIZATION_BUNDLES_OUTPUT,
      supportedLocales: ['en-EN', 'fr', 'ar'],
      debugMode: true
    })
    // ...
  ]
})
```

This way, all your translations will be prefixed by the corresponding localization key, so you can easily map the text to the key.

Examples:

- `simpleHeader.airline - My Airline`
- `simpleHeader.motto - Let's shape the future of travel`

## Enable Chrome extension debugging

The Otter framework provides a [Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/otter-devtools/aejabgendbpckkdnjaphhlifbhepmbne) to help debug the application.
To enable the communication with the [Otter Devtools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/otter-devtools/aejabgendbpckkdnjaphhlifbhepmbne), the two following steps are required:

1. Importing the Devtools module into the application module:

```typescript
import { LocalizationDevtoolsModule } from '@o3r/localization';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    // ...,
    LocalizationDevtoolsModule
  ]
})
export class AppModule {}
```

2. The debug message service needs to be activated:

```typescript

> import { LocalizationDevtoolsMessageService } from '@o3r/localization';

Reviewer: Now we recommend to do it in the `main.ts` (you can check the showcase application)
to avoid polluting the app.component.ts
